Restore "Update layout tutorial for current best practices" with updates (#9936)
flutter/website: src/ui/layout/tutorial.md

   stretch the `Column` widget.
   To place the column at the start of the row,
   set the `crossAxisAlignment` property to `CrossAxisAlignment.start`.
2. To add space between the rows of text, put those rows in a `Padding` widget.
3. The title row ends with a red star icon and the text `41`.
    The entire row falls inside a `Padding` widget and pads each edge
    by 32 pixels.

### Change the app body to a scrolling view

In the `body` property, replace the `Center` widget with a
`SingleChildScrollView` widget.
Within the `SingleChildScrollView` widget, replace the `Text` widget with a
`Column` widget.

<?code-excerpt "{../base,step2}/lib/main.dart" from="body:" to="children: ["?>
```diff
--- ../base/lib/main.dart
+++ step2/lib/main.dart
@@ -21,2 +17,3 @@
-        body: const Center(
-          child: Text('Hello World'),
+        body: const SingleChildScrollView(
+          child: Column(
+            children: [
```

These code updates change the app in the following ways.

* A `SingleChildScrollView` widget can scroll.
  This allows elements that don't fit on the current screen to display.
* A `Column` widget displays any elements within its `children` property
  in a stack.

>   The first element listed in the `children` array displays at

Reviewer: Here and other instances, do use "`children` list" instead of "array" since that's the Dart terminology and the actual type of `children`.

"array" is generally a more technical term as well.

  the top of the stack. Elements in the `children` array display
  in array order on the screen from top to bottom.

### Update the app to display the title section

Add the `TitleSection` widget as the first element in the `children` array.
This places it at the top of the screen.
Pass the provided name and location to the `TitleSection` constructor.

<?code-excerpt "{../base,step2}/lib/main.dart" from="children:" to="],"?>
```diff
--- ../base/lib/main.dart
+++ step2/lib/main.dart
@@ -23 +19,6 @@
+            children: [
+              TitleSection(
+                name: 'Oeschinen Lake Campground',
+                location: 'Kandersteg, Switzerland',
+              ),
+            ],
```

{{site.alert.tip}}

* When pasting code into your app, indentation can become skewed.
      To fix this in your Flutter editor, use [automatic reformatting support][].
* To accelerate your development, try Flutter's [hot reload][] feature.
* If you have problems, compare your code to [`lib/main.dart`][].

{{site.alert.end}}

## Add the Button section

> In this section, add the Buttons that will add functionality to your app.

Reviewer: Any reason for this to be capitalized?

```suggestion
In this section, add the buttons that will add functionality to your app.
```

Author: Fixed.

<?code-excerpt path-base="layout/lakes/step3"?>

The **Button** section contains three columns that use the same layout:
an icon over a row of text.

{% include docs/app-figure.md
   image="ui/layout/layout-sketch-button-block-unlabeled.svg"
   caption="The Button section as sketch and prototype UI" %}

Plan to distribute these columns in one row so each takes the same
amount of space. Paint all text and icons with the primary color.

### Add the `ButtonSection` widget

Add the following code after the `TitleSection` widget to contain the code
to build the row of buttons.

<?code-excerpt "lib/main.dart (ButtonStart)" title?>
```dart
class ButtonSection extends StatelessWidget {
  const ButtonSection({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    final Color color = Theme.of(context).primaryColor;

> // ···

Reviewer: It's a bit odd to see the plaster comment with no matching indentation. If you indent the nearby `enddocregion`, I think it should use that indentation.

Author: True, but I'd rather not re-run code-excerpts if it's not needed.

Reviewer: That's fine. Do consider opening an issue to come back to it, or have someone else do so. Thanks!

  }
}
```

### Create a helper method to make buttons

As the code for each column could use the same syntax,
create a helper method named `ButtonSection()`.
Each call to this method passes a color, an `Icon` widget and a `Text` widget.
Given these parameters, the helper returns a `Column` widget.
Each contains two children: the `Icon` and the `Text`.
A `Padding` widget separates these children.

> The helper also paints these children in the given color.

Reviewer: I'm a bit lost here. There is no helper method and the `ButtonSection` class/widget doesn't have these mentioned parameters in its constructor.

Is this intending to talk about the `BuildButtonColumn` stateless widget in the snippet below? If so, can you update the section header and text to reflect that?

Let me know if something isn't clear when making that update.

Author: Fixed.

      ],
    );
  }
```

### Position the buttons with a `Row` widget

> Add the following code into the `ButtonSection` widget.

Reviewer: I'm generally not a huge fan of calling the class definition of a widget a "widget", since the term isn't super clear if it's referring to a particular type of widget or a particular instance of one.

I think a good balance could be "widget definition"?

Author: I'll call it a class then.

> 1. Call the helper method three times, once for each button.

Reviewer: Same here, it's not a helper method, it's a widget. Also be specific what one (`BuildButtonColumn`).

Author: Fixed.

1. Pass the color, `Icon`, and text for that specific button.

> 1. Align the columns along the main axis with the

Reviewer: Since this is an initial tutorial, I think the term "main axis" could not be understood by the tutorial's readers. Consider cross-linking the main axis text to https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/layout#aligning-widgets.

Author: That whole page is the next rewrite. I want to avoid any links to that page right now.

>    `MainAxisAlignment.spaceEvenly` method.

Reviewer: `MainAxisAlignment.spaceEvenly` isn't a method that's called or used, it's an [enum value](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/rendering/MainAxisAlignment.html#spaceEvenly) that in this case is specified as the created row's `mainAxisAlignment` property.

>    This arranges the free space in equal amounts before, between,

Reviewer: Nice adding this clarification :)

  const ButtonSection({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    final Color color = Theme.of(context).primaryColor;
    return SizedBox(
      child: Row(
        mainAxisAlignment: MainAxisAlignment.spaceEvenly,
        children: [
          BuildButtonColumn(
            color: color,
            icon: Icons.call,
            label: 'CALL',
          ),
          BuildButtonColumn(
            color: color,
            icon: Icons.near_me,
            label: 'ROUTE',
          ),
          BuildButtonColumn(
            color: color,
            icon: Icons.share,
            label: 'SHARE',
          ),
        ],
      ),
    );
  }
}

class BuildButtonColumn extends StatelessWidget {
  const BuildButtonColumn({
    super.key,
    required this.color,
    required this.icon,
    required this.label,
  });

  final Color color;
  final IconData icon;
  final String label;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Column(
// ···
    );
  }
}
```

### Update the app to display the button section

Add the button section to the `children` array.

    <?code-excerpt path-base="layout/lakes"?>
    

>     <?code-excerpt "step{2,3}/lib/main.dart (addWidget)" title?>

Reviewer: This snippet is failing to render: https://flutter-docs-prod--pr9936-revert-9927-revert-9893-fix-clit72es.web.app/ui/layout/tutorial#update-the-app-to-display-the-button-section

Perhaps because it's indented? Is there a particular reason these instructions and the snippet were intented here?

Author: Fixed.

    ```diff
    --- step2/lib/main.dart (addWidget)
    +++ step3/lib/main.dart (addWidget)
    @@ -5,6 +5,7 @@
             name: 'Oeschinen Lake Campground',
             location: 'Kandersteg, Switzerland',
           ),
    +      ButtonSection(),
         ],
       ),
     ),
    ```

## Add the Text section

> In this section, add the text description to this app.

Reviewer: As a reader, I was a bit confused reading this, as it made it seem like I should go off and do that myself with no help. Perhaps be more explicit with "In the following section" or "In the following steps"?

{% include docs/app-figure.md
   image="ui/layout/layout-sketch-add-text-block.svg"
   caption="The text block as sketch and prototype UI" %}

<?code-excerpt path-base="layout/lakes"?>

### Add the `TextSection` widget

Add the following code as a separate widget after the `ButtonSection` widget.

<?code-excerpt "step4/lib/main.dart (TextSection)" title?>
```dart
class TextSection extends StatelessWidget {
  const TextSection({
    super.key,
    required this.description,
  });

  final String description;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Padding(
      padding: const EdgeInsets.all(32),
      child: Text(
        description,
        softWrap: true,
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

> By setting `softwrap` to `true`, text lines fill the column width before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By setting `softWrap` to `true`, text lines fill the column width before
```

Also consider linking `softWrap` to its API docs: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Text/softWrap.html

wrapping at a word boundary.

### Update the app to display the text section

> Insert the `TextSection` call into the `body` property.

Reviewer: Creating a new instance of a class through a constructor is not really a "call" like a method, but rather a creation or construction. Also I didn't really know what `body` was referring to at first, could we be more specific about where in the body and say something like:

```suggestion
Add a new `TextSection` widget as a child after the `ButtonSection`.
```

> This call needs `description` variable set to the text of the
> location description.

Reviewer: I think in this case it's better to refer to `description` explicitly as a parameter of the constructor or as a property of the widget. On the docs when we use the term "variable" with any modifier it is usually referring to local variables.

```suggestion
When adding the `TextSection` widget, set its `description` property to
the text of the location description.
```

<?code-excerpt "step{3,4}/lib/main.dart (addWidget)" title?>
```diff
--- step3/lib/main.dart (addWidget)
+++ step4/lib/main.dart (addWidget)
@@ -6,6 +6,16 @@
         location: 'Kandersteg, Switzerland',
       ),
       ButtonSection(),
+      TextSection(
+        description:
+            'Lake Oeschinen lies at the foot of the Blüemlisalp in the '
+            'Bernese Alps. Situated 1,578 meters above sea level, it '
+            'is one of the larger Alpine Lakes. A gondola ride from '
+            'Kandersteg, followed by a half-hour walk through pastures '
+            'and pine forest, leads you to the lake, which warms to 20 '
+            'degrees Celsius in the summer. Activities enjoyed here '
+            'include rowing, and riding the summer toboggan run.',
+      ),
     ],
   ),
 ),
```

## Add the Image section

> In this section, add the image file to complete your layout.

Reviewer: Similar to what I mentioned above, I think it would be helpful to be more clear in stating that the following sections will help them do that.

Author: It's more accurate to say "In this section" because it's the first line describing what the section does.

Reviewer: Something like "In the following steps" or just "Next, you'll add" would also work.

### Configure your app to use supplied images

> In this section, configure your app to reference images in your Flutter project.

Reviewer: Rather than stating what they will do so formally, consider opening with details on what they are going to do now and why its important. Outside of something at the beginning, I feel readers glaze over "In this section..." and it can get a bit repetitive.

Could start the intro with something like:

```
To configure your app to use custom images...
```

1. Create an `images` directory at the top of the project.

> 1. Add [`lake.jpg`][].

Reviewer: Add it where?

```suggestion
1. Download the [`lake.jpg`][] image and add it to the new `images` directory.
```

   {{site.alert.info}}
     You can't use `wget` to save this binary file.
     You can download the [image][ch-photo] from [Unsplash][]
     under the Unsplash License. The small size comes in at 94.4 kB.
   {{site.alert.end}}

1. Update the `pubspec.yaml` file at the root directory of your app
   to include an `assets` tag.

>    This change makes the image available to your code.

Reviewer: Consider specifying with text to declare the image under `assets` too.

   <?code-excerpt "{step4,step5}/pubspec.yaml"?>
   ```diff
   --- step4/pubspec.yaml
   +++ step5/pubspec.yaml
   @@ -19,3 +19,5 @@

    flutter:
      uses-material-design: true
   +  assets:
   +    - images/lake.jpg
   ```

{{site.alert.tip}}

Text in the `pubspec.yaml` respects whitespace and text case.

> Write the changes to the app as given in the previous example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write the changes to the file as given in the previous example.
```

This change might require you to restart the running program to
display the image.

{{site.alert.end}}

### Create the `ImageSection` widget

> Add the following `ImageSection` widget to the end of your app code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define the following `ImageSection` widget after the other declarations.
```

<?code-excerpt "step5/lib/main.dart (ImageSection)" title?>
```dart
class ImageSection extends StatelessWidget {
  const ImageSection({super.key, required this.image});

  final String image;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Image.asset(
      image,
      width: 600,
      height: 240,
      fit: BoxFit.cover,
    );
  }
}
```

> The `BoxFit.cover` method tells Flutter to display the image with

Reviewer: `BoxFit.cover` isn't a method, it's an enum value.

```suggestion
The `BoxFit.cover` value tells Flutter to display the image with
```

two constraints. First, display the image as small as possible.
Second, cover all the space that the layout allotted, called the render box.

### Update the app to display the image section

> Insert the `ImageSection` call as the first child in the `children` array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a `ImageSection` widget as the first child in the `children` list.
```

> This call needs `image` variable set to the path of the image file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `image` property to the path of the image you added in
[Configure your app to use supplied images](#configure-your-app-to-use-supplied-images).
```
